.Dd March 11, 2024
.Dt KERNUPD 8
.Os Ragnarok
.Sh NAME
.Nm kernupd
.Nd install/update Ragnarok's experimental build of the Linux kernel
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm kernupd
.Op Fl d | i | h | q
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a small script that will either install or update Ragnarok's experimental
build of the Linux kernel. This kernel version is built with Clang and enables
the ThinLTO and Control Flow Integrity options. It has not been tested long
enough to be added to the Ragnarok repository and installed by default.
.Pp
When run without any options,
.Nm kernupd
will verify if an update is available and if so, the kernel, headers and libc-dev
packages will be downloaded then verified with the
.Xr signify 1
tool before installing the packages.
.Pp
All operations prior to the installation of the packages are performed as an
unprivileged system user with no login shell access.
.Sh OPTIONS
The options are as follow:
.Bl -tag -width "-d"
.It Fl d
Download, but don't install, the kernel, headers and libc packages. The packages
will be saved to /var/db/kernel. This operation will work whether the kernel is
up-to-date or not.
.It Fl i
Install the kernel (if previously downloaded with the -d option).
.It Fl h
Show help message.
.It Fl q
Check if there are any updates available.
.El
.Sh RUN AUTOMATICALLY WITH APT/APT-GET
It is possible to run the
.Nm kernupd
script automatically when checking for updates through
.Xr apt 8
or
.Xr apt-get 8
by copying the
.Em 99kernel_update
hook located in the
.Em /usr/share/doc/kernupd/hook/
directory to
.Em /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/
and making it executable.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std kernupd
In particular, 1 indicates that the utility encountered and error, while 2 indicates
that no installable updates were found.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr signify 1 ,
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm
was written by
.An Ian LeCorbeau Aq Mt I-LeCorbeau@protonmail.com .
