.Dd May 18 2024
.Dt AFTERBOOT 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm afterboot
.Nd things to check after first boot
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This document attempts to list items for the system administrator to
check and set up after installation and first boot of the system.
A basic knowledge of
.Ux
systems is assumed.
.Pp
.Sh Starting out
.Pp
.Ss Updates
By the time you have installed the system, it is possible that important
security updates or critical bug fixes were released, it is therefore recommended
to check and upgrade if necessary by using the
.Xr apt 8
or
.Xr apt-get 8
commands.
.Ss Doas
Ragnarok comes with doas, an alternative to sudo. In order to work, doas
needs to be properly configured in /etc/doas.conf. A basic configuration
is made at install time if a regular was created.
.Pp
If you skipped the creation of a regular user at installation time, create
one and make sure it's part of the wheel group. Then edit /etc/doas.conf
and insert 'permit :wheel' (without the single quotes) which gives users 
part of the wheel group the right to execute doas. For more configuration
options, refer to the official
.Xr doas 1
documentation.
.Ss Firewall
The default firewall in Ragnarok is nftables. The default configuration blocks
all incoming connections, except for those established by the user, and allows
outgoing traffic.
.Pp
It is good practice to inspect /etc/nftables.conf and further lock it down if
need be. For example, disabling ICMP and IPv6, as long as the user understands
(and can live with) the potential drawbacks in doing so.
.Ss Networking
Ragnarok uses the
.Xr ifup 1
and
.Xr ifdown 1
commands to connect to network interfaces configured in
.Pa /etc/network/interfaces.
.Xr wpasupplicant 1
is used in the background to handle connecting to protected WPA* wifi networks.
.Pp
Wired connections should be configured automatically at install time. Wireless
interfaces should be configured in
.Pa /etc/network/interfaces.d/interface-name
.Pp
The interface name can be found with the
.Pp
.Cm find /sys/class/net
.Pp
command. The wireless interface should begin with 'wlp'.
A simple config file for a wireless interface (hereby named wlp1s0) would look
as such:
.Pp
.D1 allow-hotplug wlp1s0
.D1 iface wlp1s0 inet dhcp
.D1 wpa-ssid "MYSSID"
.D1 wpa-psk "MYWIFIPASSWORD"
.Pp
This will suffice for a single interface which will be started at boot time.
.Pp
For security reasons, it is highly recommended to run the
.Pp
.Cm chmod 0600 /etc/network/interfaces.d/interface-name
.Pp
command to prevent non-root users from reading the file.
.Pp
For more information on configuring and connecting to networks, refer to the
.Xr interfaces 5 ,
.Xr ifup 1
and
.Xr ifdown 1
manual pages.
.Pp
.Ss System Mail
Ragnarok ships with
.Xr bsd-mailx 1
and
.Xr dma 8
for its default mailing system. It is advised to get familiar with it as it is used by
the system to communicate with users.
.Pp
To read mail sent to root without loging into its account, it is useful to create/edit
.Pa /etc/aliases
and alias root's mail to the default user created at install time:
.Pp
.D1 root:	username
.Pp
.Ss bsd-mailx
The traditional simple command-line-mode mail user agent (from the OpenBSD project) which
provides the
.Cm /usr/bin/mail
command. It does not include any of the features provided by more advanced mail user agents.
See the
.Xr bsd-mailx 1
manual page for further information.
.Ss dma
The Dragonfly Mail Agent is a simple Mail Transport Agent from the DragonflyBSD project. It
was chosen for Ragnarok's default MTA due to its simplicity and the fact that it does not listen
on any port, ever.  It accepts mails from local Mail User Agents (MUA) and delivers them either
to local mailboxes or remote SMTP servers. Remote delivery includes support for features such as
TLS/SSL and SMTP authentication.
.Pp
dma is not intended as a replacement for full-featured MTAs. If such an MTA is needed, it is recommended
to install something more appropriate, such as OpenSMTPD, which is the only other MTA fully supported by
the Ragnarok project.
.Pp
For more information on dma see the
.Xr dma 8 ,
.Xr mailq 8 ,
.Xr newaliases 8 ,
and
.Xr sendmail 8
manual pages.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr apt 8 ,
.Xr apt-get 8 ,
.Xr doas 1 ,
.Xr nft 8 ,
.Xr nftables 8 ,
